Joshua Day's "Rook"
Version 1.0.1

An entry in the 2011 Seven Day Roguelike (7DRL) Challenge

Find details about the 2011 7DRL Challenge at
  http://roguebasin.roguelikedevelopment.org/index.php?title=7DRL_Contest_2011

Find the original success announcement for Rook at
  http://7drl.org/2011/03/13/rook-7drl-success 

This is the first post-7DRL version.


THIS RELEASE
------------

Several things have changed since the 7DRL version.  This README is new,
and the bug that caused items to be dropped on impassable terrain and that
made the player warp off the map when reading a scroll of teleport -- a
single flaw that made the game think that every cell was occupied and that
it did not, therefore, matter just where the item was placed or where the
player ended up -- has been fixed.

This post-7DRL version improves the message system, allows you to drop items,
allows enemies to run across items, and contains a number of small gameplay
tweaks.  It will be, I hope, the first of many.


THE GAME
--------

As long as you're wearing the Turk's Turban, you can't die a stupid
death -- unless there's no safe move left, you cannot die.  If you take
it off, you're playing a traditional roguelike.  The Ring of Vulnerability
will save you from losing any hitpoints, because every hit you take will
kill you, which is forbidden by the orb.  Along the way you'll find potions
of healing and scrolls of teleport, opium sots, drunkards, hounds, and the
royal couple themselves, out for a stroll in the woods.  Apparently they're
bad guys.  Probably tyrants, or something.  Kill them.

The King and Queen are at the far right.  Kill the King to win.  It is
nearly impossible to kill the Queen.

Move around with the vi-keys (hjklyubn) or with a numlocked number pad.
Press . or 5 to wait.  Press a or enter to apply an item, followed by the
letter (or corresponding number, with a=1, b=2, c=3, d=4, e=5) or the item
to apply.  Applying a worn item will take it off; applying an item you've
taken off will put it on; applying a potion will quaff it; applying a scroll
will read it.

Press Q (shift-q) to quit.

Press R (shift-r) to restart.

Press H (shift-h) when in checkmate to see just what the future holds.


THE AUTHOR
----------

The author, like any other writer, wants to hear from you.  You can make
this happen several ways:

 by e-mail   josh.day@gmail.com
 on irc      quakenet  #rgrd
 on usenet   rec.games.roguelike.development

Find future versions of this game at
  http://roguebasin.roguelikedevelopment.org/index.php?title=Rook

Or just ask to be kept up to date.

